Augment Getting Help docs. (#170)
pantsbuild/pantsbuild.org: src/pages/community/getting-help.mdx

The [Pants community](/community/members) is friendly, welcoming, and passionate about improving the craft of software engineering. If you need help with anything Pants-related, you've come to the right place. We'd love to hear from you!

## How to get help

Pants community members will do their best to answer any respectfully posed questions. General questions about Pants,
its features, language support, roadmap etc. are always welcome!

If you need help debugging a specific problem you're encountering in your repo, then we ask that you help us to help you:

1. First, do your best to solve the issue on your own. The Pants [source code](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants), [issue tracker](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues), and [documentation](https://pantsbuild.org)

>    are useful resources for this.

Reviewer: 👍🏽

The [Pants community](/community/members) is friendly, welcoming, and passionate about improving the craft of software engineering. If you need help with anything Pants-related, you've come to the right place. We'd love to hear from you!

## How to get help

Pants community members will do their best to answer any questions that are posed in a respectful way. General questions about Pants,
its features, language support, roadmap etc. are always welcome.

If you need help debugging a specific problem you're encountering in your repo, then we ask that you help us to help you by adhering to the following:

> - First, do your best to solve the issue on your own. The Pants [source code](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants), [issue tracker](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues), and [documentation](https://pantsbuild.org)

Reviewer 2: Minor thing, but maybe this should be a numbered list:

```suggestion
1. First, do your best to solve the issue on your own. The Pants [source code](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants), [issue tracker](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues), and [documentation](https://pantsbuild.org)
```

  are useful resources for this.

> - If you're still stuck, and would like a Pants contributor to look at your problem, please provide a small public GitHub repo that reproduces the problem.

Reviewer 2: In addition to the framing general concern, sometimes it's quite hard to create a reproducer, e.g. inconsistent things like https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/19748, or performance issues at scale. Obviously a reproducer is helpful and really valuable, but it'd be unfortunate to completely discourage people from filing issues about those sort of things, at least as a place to have the community start "taking notes"/collaborating a reproducer.

I don't think we're at the scale of incoming issues where it's a major burden to encourage/remind users for a reproducer.

So suggestion for two actions:

- the phrasing of this to be something along the lines "provide a reproducer, or if not possible, all the information you can, e.g. `pants.toml` and relevant `BUILD` files"
- we (i.e. Pants maintainers) could start labelling such issues "requires reproducer" or something and then semi-regularly do a (manual) clean-up of such issues? E.g. if there's a bunch of unreproduced issues sitting around for a while, go through and close them.

Thoughts?

Reviewer: > the phrasing of this to be something along the lines "provide a reproducer, or if not possible, all the information you can, e.g. pants.toml and relevant BUILD files"

What about some location (ticket, repo, whatever) where we have a set of common things we ask for (maybe something we could automate, anonymized into Pants CLI) - so, pants.toml, BUILD files, logs, neofetch data, etc... There would end up being a ton of superfluous data 🤷🏽 

> we (i.e. Pants maintainers) could start labelling such issues "requires reproducer" or something and then semi-regularly do a (manual) clean-up of such issues? E.g. if there's a bunch of unreproduced issues sitting around for a while, go through and close them.

OfficeJ auto-closes in 4 days, which is infuriating: ![Screenshot 2024-03-07 at 10 01 38](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pantsbuild.org/assets/3823045/62036dd3-64c6-415a-8f1a-0af2239437c7)

After an initial human triage of staleness, I'd be more open to a longer-running auto-close bot at like 3 months or something? I was looking at the issue backlog and seeing tickets that haven't been updated from mid-2018

Reviewer 2: > What about some location (ticket, repo, whatever) where we have a set of common things we ask for (maybe something we could automate, anonymized into Pants CLI) - so, pants.toml, BUILD files, logs, neofetch data, etc... There would end up being a ton of superfluous data 🤷🏽

Putting it in a specific list of information to these docs might be a start?

> OfficeJ auto-closes in 4 days, which is infuriating: 
>
> After an initial human triage of staleness, I'd be more open to a longer-running auto-close bot at like 3 months or something? I was looking at the issue backlog and seeing tickets that haven't been updated from mid-2018

Yeah, fully agreed: auto-closers are user-hostile. I'm thinking the label could be used for a human to go and find issues easily, and then close them out manually (or potentially not close them, e.g. if someone did provide a reproducer but it wasn't noticed). Pants doesn't receive that many issues 😄

Author: > I don't think we're at the scale of incoming issues where it's a major burden to encourage/remind users for a reproducer.

Not sure about that. It is a frequent nuisance when people post questions lacking important information, or dump snippets directly into slack.

  The README.md in this repo should provide clear instructions on how to reproduce the problem, and the architecture and OS on which it can be reproduced.
  Posting code and config snippets to Slack is not a good alternative, as we won't know if they contain enough information to reproduce the problem.
  A self-contained repo is far more useful.
- Then [file an issue](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pants/issues/new/choose) that states the problem and the steps you've taken to attempt to solve it, and a link to the reproduction repo. If you find
  an existing issue that seems relevant, please link to it, or post directly to that existing issue if you're reasonably sure it describes the same problem.
- Then, feel free to reach out in the #general channel in Slack with a link to your issue, to kickstart the discussion.

Keep in mind that this community support is provided _voluntarily_. When you ask for help you're asking busy people to devote their valuable time to solving your problem.

> You are far more likely to get a positive response if you demonstrate that you've put in the basic legwork first.

Reviewer 2: I strongly appreciate encouraging people to provide the right info straight up, but I'm a little concerned about phrasing some of this stuff too strongly in terms of "you must do all these things [or else you'll be ignored for process reasons]" which seems... scary, especially for someone new to open source.

I'd personally prefer to phrase it in terms of what's in it for the asker, i.e. focus on "help us help you" / "you'll fix your problem quicker if you make it easy for us to help".

For instance:

```suggestion
You are far more likely to get a positive response if you make it easy for people to help you.
```

But I think potentially this whole section could be reframed slightly to be cast in that light, especially the list above.

What do you think?

Reviewer: Are there any projects that do this kind of language well (friendly, while direct and helpful?).

I'm always a fan of how Svelte phrases things, for example.

![Screenshot 2024-03-07 at 10 09 38](https://github.com/pantsbuild/pantsbuild.org/assets/3823045/c60827e6-2907-4a2e-aef2-186f2dc8553c)

Reviewer 2: > I'm always a fan of how Svelte phrases things, for example.

Ah yeah, I like it too.

Somewhat tangential but that text there makes me wonder if we could also update our bug report template to be more specific about what's expected.

>  Are there any projects that do this kind of language well (friendly, while direct and helpful?).

Good question! I don't know of any particularly good examples of the top of my head.

I know Rust (used to) put a lot of effort into helping new-comers, and this is their current "generic bug" issue template:

``````markdown
<!--
Thank you for filing a bug report! 🐛 Please provide a short summary of the bug,
along with any information you feel relevant to replicating the bug.
-->

I tried this code:

```rust
<code>
```

I expected to see this happen: *explanation*

Instead, this happened: *explanation*

### Meta
<!--
If you're using the stable version of the compiler, you should also check if the
bug also exists in the beta or nightly versions.
-->

`rustc --version --verbose`:
```
<version>
```

<!--
Include a backtrace in the code block by setting `RUST_BACKTRACE=1` in your
environment. E.g. `RUST_BACKTRACE=1 cargo build`.
-->
<details><summary>Backtrace</summary>
<p>

```
<backtrace>
```

</p>
</details>
``````

Author: I'll just take this bit out.

> As an open-source project, we always appreciate a willingness to dive in and fix issues yourself, with our guidance.

Reviewer 2: We could potentially also call out "provide support to others" as a useful activity, in addition to fixing issues.
